The Joe Rogan experience. Now, what.
Do you do in this environment?
When you look at the way people distrust the police now in particular, I mean,
I mean,
I've been reading stories about cops going to five guys burgers and they can't
get served. Cause people won't serve cops. And this idea that all cops are bad,
and this is a very,
really disturbing perspective to me because you're seeing what's happening right
now in Chicago. You're seeing what's happening right now in New York,
where you have this massive uptick in violent crime,
because it's perceived that the police presence has been demit diminished
greatly.
So how do you reaffirm the
trust in, in,
in law enforcement and what do you do to reform law enforcement?
Because clearly there are some people that are cops that should not be cops.
Yeah. So.
There are a few things that you can do right off the bat and that people right
left and center have sort of talked about.
And one of them is that you can abridge qualified immunity in certain areas.
So qualified immunity is the idea that you're not liable to civil suit.
If you don't do something bad, that has specifically had a precedent in law.
So you could do something bad,
but as long as nobody else has done the same exact bad thing before you're not
subjected to civil liability, you could, you could, it's a little complicated.
So qualified immunity generally means that if I do something bad,
then as a police officer,
if I act within the scope of my general reasonable authority,
you can Sue me for it. The actual, where they.
Do something bad. What if you shoot somebody while you're operating? Like.
Right. So, so w the,
the reason that qualified immunity as currently understood under Supreme court
doctrine is too broad, is because the, the standard used to be,
you would have to act as a reasonable police officer.
If you acted as a reasonable police officer, and you took a reasonable action,
right? Somebody went for their waistband, they had an object in there.
You didn't know if it was gun, you shot them, right?
You wouldn't presumably be sueable because that's still reasonable.
You track a guy down, you shoot him in the back, you know,
and then you plant the gun on him. That presumably would be sueable right.
He'd be personally liable. So the, the, the,
the way that Supreme court has done this,
they broadened qualified immunity to such an extent that you can still bottom
line. You can still get away with some bad stuff and not be sued for it.
So that needs to be curved. That's one thing,
second police union contracts need to be utterly ridden across the country
police union contracts, right now protect a lot of bad cops, right?
But because the police unions are designed to protect the members,
the members of the union, just like any other union.
And so what that means is that police unions,
I'm not a fan of public sector unions generally. Um,
but police unions need to be abridged in their ability to protect cops who do
something wrong. Third,
you need to have a national registry of cops who are disciplined for violation
of procedure,
so that they can't just leave LAPD and then go work for a Ferguson PD or
something. That those are some easy things that you could do right off the bat.
But the biggest thing right now,
the biggest factor in terms of lack of faith between police and,
and citizens really is the media,
because there's been a lot of talk about the racial constituency of police
forces. The majority of the LAPD is minority.
The majority of the Baltimore is minority.
I believe that a huge percentage of the, of the Chicago PD is minority.
So it really is not about, you know,
lots of white cops in black neighborhoods in Baltimore.
It's a lot of black cops in black neighborhoods,
and that has not solved the problem of people mistrusting the police on an
endemic level.
It's an inherently difficult job. It's, it's a rotten.
Job, man. I mean, I th I have nothing, but for, for good cops,
those th they're heroes and the vast majority of cops are good cops and they're
heroes. Yeah.
I read a meme the other day. That's very accurate. It said,
if you have 130 good cops and 12 cops,
you have 12 cops that are bad. You have 12 bad cops.
If you have 130 good cops and 12 bad cops,
but the hundred and 30 won't do anything about the 12 bad cops,
you've got 142 bad cops. Yeah. And, and I think that that's right.
I think that's right. I.
Think that it is also true that our standard of what constitutes a bad cop has
in some ways become much more stringent. So for example,
there are cases that have become national stories in which a cop was labeled a
bad cop, and it wasn't a bad cop.
Right. He put, there are bad cops for sure. Look.
Here's a great example. The,
the cops that pushed down that old ban and where was it? Buffalo, New York. Is.
That where it was granted? Yep. That's.
Crazy. I mean, and that's white on white crime, right? I mean,
a is a white guy pushes this old man down.
And the most bonkers part about that was the way the president reacted.
Like the way he felt seemed funny. Maybe he was Antifa. Maybe he was undercover.
Like there was literally the worst possible reaction to
watching an elderly senior citizen get pushed down by a young strong man. I.
Mean, president Trump had the worst possible reaction to a thing,
a thing I can't believe it. Yeah. I mean, unknown president Trump,
having bad reactions.
To that, I'm a big supporter of law enforcement.
I have a lot of friends that are cops. I know a lot of friends,
not a lot of people from martial arts that are cops from the UFC.
I know a lot of cops from jujitsu knew a lot of cops growing up from all the
different martial arts disciplines that I engage in.
A lot of cops get involved in that. There's a lot of good cops.
There's a lot of good people out there, but it is a insane job.
And so many of them have PTSD for.
Sure. And,
but I will say that one of the great myths is that the big threat to the black
community in the United States is law enforcement. It's just nonsense.
It's not only nonsense. It's counterproductive nonsense. And you're seeing it.
Play out right. It is a threat all the time.
It is on a data level and extraordinarily small threat law enforcement.
And the law enforcement is a threat to black life on a generalized level is
extraordinarily small.
The Washington post database last year showed a grand total of 15 black
Americans shot unarmed across the United States in a country of 42 million black
people is.
When it happens. It doesn't matter what the statistics are.
If people see that video and that video gets shared 200 million times,
it looks like there's 200 million white.
Cops killing a black guy. Well, and.
This is why I say that the media's treatment of this stuff is just horrific.
Just the media it's it's social media, social,
social media has blown this stuff up.
And it's gotten to the point where if you say that's a horrible situation,
that's also an anecdotal situation. Here's some data. If you present the data,
it's like, well, you're are you ignoring? People's lived experiences.
That's racist. How can you present the data?
The data is the data doesn't take into account. The full story.
Nobody takes into account an awful lot of the story,
which is why it's called data, right?
Like I just don't anecdotal evidence is evidence of an anecdote.
It is not evidence of a broad national trend,
nor is it evidence that taking a broad national policy like cutting back funding
to the police in a time of rising crime is a good idea because you saw a video
on YouTube. I'm sorry.
Agreed. That's a terrible idea. But when you look at these videos,
the positive side, if there is any positive side,
is that it's they're accountable now. And this has been going on forever.
If you talk to people that are black,
that grew up in poverty stricken areas,
they will tell you horrific stories about being abused by cops.
And I think the number's like 25% more likely a
black person or brown person getting any sort of interaction with a
cop is 25% more likely to become physical or for them to be abused.
That's that's real, right? When you look at the statistics of them being killed,
yeah. White people get killed more by cops than black people,
but there's way more white people.
Even on a percentage basis. When you have to use the control group of crime,
you can't use the control group of RA population.
So you have to look at people who are in situations where a deadly,
inter interaction is likely there've been multiple studies that show that black
people are not in more danger of being shot by cops than, than white people.
But it is true that low-level uses of force between cops and black people are
worse than low-level uses of force between cops and white people, right?
That's the role in fire study.
There are a few confines that have yet to be sort of worked out. I think.
Probably why people are less likely to believe that the cops gonna kill them.
Whereas black people are probably convinced the cops going to kill them.
That might,
that might play a factor in why there's more white people being killed by cops.
It may very well be true.
It may also be the low-level uses of forest is maybe a forest, maybe disparate.
If you think that the cops likely to be a racist,
then you might be more likely to resist the cop.
And then he might be more likely to rough you up. So it's,
it's very difficult to, to rub out the confounds there.
The one thing that we know for sure is that the greatest threat to black life,
just like the greatest threat to white life is members of your own race killing
you. Like if you're talking about actual murders,
white people are killed by white people, black, black by people, you know,
mostly right. It's it's interracial,
right there is there there's very little interracial crime like black on white
or white on black in the United States. There's a lot of interracial crimes.
A lot of white people, victimizing white people and black people,
victimizing black people. And the question is, how do you stop that?
This is why I don't know if you saw this interview is kind of an amazing
interview. Terry crews, the actor he was on with his own Don lemon, right?
And Don lemon, uh, is doing the black lives matter.
Sloganing and Terry crews says, well, all lives matter. And Don lemon says,
but no black lives matter. Doesn't mean all black lives matter. Right?
But Terry crews had all black lives matter. And he said, no, no, no,
not all black lives matter. Only black lives matter.
We're only talking about police brutality right now. And Terry crews was like,
why aren't we talking about all black lives matter?
Because if black lives matter means you withdraw cops and withdrawn cops means
more dead black people, then why wouldn't those lives matter too?
And this is where the sloganeering gets in the way of actual progress because
ideology hits facts, right.
It gets very weird. And Terry crews was called some terrible names for that.
But then a video surfaced of Don lemon from 2013, chastising.
Me on that. Right. He sounds like me talking to sounds.
Exactly like you, it's hilarious. Pull your pants up, get your together.
You know, like [inaudible] literally.
Saying things like don't have babies out of wedlock, right? Stay in school,
which by the way, again, all of this is common sensical and true for all races.
It is not just black people,
young white people in Appalachian need to get their together.
Everybody needs to get their. But again, young white.
People in Appalachian dealing with the same thing what's around them all the
time is crime people taking pills,
everyone having babies out of wedlock. People impoverished.
No hope, no, no potential for escape.